---
title: File converter with a MODERN web UI and an API
descritpion: Full post for Reddit, LinkedIn, wherever
created: March 12th, 2026
---

For the past four weeks I’ve been building Transmute, an open-source, self-hosted file converter, because I felt like there needed to be another option in this space.

Self-hosted projects like ConvertX and (kinda) Vert.sh already exist, and they’re both solid and more mature than Transmute. If you are happy with those tools or cloud versions you can stop reading, it won't hurt my feelings <3

To me though those tools still feel a bit dated or rough around the edges. I wanted to host something with a more polished UI, something closer to the cloud converters I was used to, while also offering an API for automation and integration with my existing workflows.

--- 

### My Credentials
- Job: DevOps Engineer (Focus in DevSecOps, pipeline security, automation)
- Degree: Bachelors of Computer Science
- Other Projects:
  - [Dumpsterr](https://github.com/chase-roohms/dumpsterr): Docker/Python companion app to safely empty Plex Trash
  - [MythicMate](https://github.com/chase-roohms/mythicmate): Personal Docker/Java Discord bot for my D&D games

### AI Usage
IDE autocomplete was used and boilerplate code was generated by AI, but I want to be SO clear this is not a vibe-coded app, I build applications for a living. (I would tag this with "AI-Assisted" if the flair was still around)

---

Now that the housekeeping is out of the way heh.

Transmute supports converting images, video, audio, documents, presentations, spreadsheets, subtitles, fonts, emails, and more. A full auto-updating list is available on our website: [transmute.sh/conversions](https://transmute.sh/conversions/). 

It also has a built-in REST API, so it can plug into tools like n8n, Node-RED, or an arr-stack workflow. (Convert `ASS` subtitles to `SRT`, extract audio from videos downloaded with MeTube, you get the point). OpenAPI specs are available [here](https://github.com/transmute-app/openapi-specifications/blob/main/openapi.json), and the full "pretty" (ReDocly) docs are available at `/api/docs` once you spin the app up.

Other features that make Transmute *special*
- Configurable file / conversion retention, view conversion history and redownload old conversions, view upload history and reconvert uploaded files
  - Probably my favorite part, nothing worse than refreshing your page after waiting 5 minutes for a conversion to finish, just to lose the ability to download it
- Proper API key creation rather than a single API key
  - Not file converters, but the way *arr apps do API keys irks me
- 8 built in themes (4 light, 4 dark)
  - Want a new color scheme? Open an issue, they are very easy for me to add :)

CAD support is being investigated. I feel the best implementation will be via [aspose-cad](https://pypi.org/project/aspose-cad/) but they do not yet support Python 3.13. I have opened a ticket with them and they are investigating how long it would take for them to roll this out.

I’d love feedback, positive and negative about application

GitHub: https://github.com/transmute-app/transmute